(1)

CT CHEST Clinical History: Short of breath. History of hemodialysis smoking. History of HIV. Comparison: 10/18/2011 and prior Technique: Helical CT scan of the chest was performed without IV contrast. Total Exam DLP (mGy-cm): 754 Mild centrilobular emphysema is present in the upper lobes. There is a subtle groundglass pattern of centrilobular nodularity which involves the upper and lower lungs evenly with sparing of the subpleural parenchyma. There is a calcified granuloma in the right lung apex. The focal nodule seen just inferior to this on the prior scan is not present currently. Small bilateral pleural effusions are present at the lung bases resulting in compressive atelectasis. There is no pneumothorax. The central airways are patent. The quantity and bulk of enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes has increased since prior. The largest is an anterior paratracheal 16mm noted but smaller subcarinal hand bilateral paratracheal as well as AP window and prevascular nodes are present. There is no hilar adenopathy. The heart is normal in size with mitral annular calcification. Slight hypodensity of the blood pool relative to the myocardium is suggestive of anemia. There is a small to moderate pericardial effusion which was not present on the prior study. There is mild bilateral gynecomastia. Moderate subcutaneous edema is present diffusely. The kidneys are atrophic . The upper abdominal viscera appear otherwise normal. The bones appear normal. Impression: 1. Innumerable centrilobular nodules of groundglass attenuation throughout the lungs in keeping with iflammatory process. Differential diagnosis in this patient with HIV includes atypical pneumonia for example viral or other opportunistic infection hypersensitivity pneumanitis/drug reaction chronic conditions related to smoking such as desquamative interstitial pneumonia. 2. Mediastinal lymphadenopathy may be related to HIV. 3. Emphysema.



(2)

Impression: 1. Mild peripheral and basilar interstitial reticulation which is consistent with the patient's given clinical history of scleroderma. No evidence of traction bronchiectasis. 2. Multiple pulmonary nodules as described above the largest solid nodule being a 5 mm nodule in the right middle lobe. In a high risk patient (smoker radon or asbestos exposure previous lung cancer) this may be followed with a CT in 6 months to ensure stability. For a low risk patient appropriate follow up can be performed in 1 year. These recommendations are derived from the Fleischner Society Guidelines for Management of Incidental Small Pulmonary Nodules. Radiology November 2005 237:395-400.



(3)

IMPRESSION: 1.) Two nodular densities in the left upper inner breast corresponding to the patient's known left-sided breast cancer. Please refer to dedicated MRI of the breasts performed earlier today. 2.) Three small pulmonary nodules all measuring 3 mm in size. In this patient who is a known smoker follow up CT of the chest recommended in 12 months to ensure stability. This recommendation is derived from the Fleischner Society Guidelines for Management of Incidental Small Pulmonary Nodules. Radiology November 2005 237:395-400.



(4)

IMPRESSION: 1. No evidence of interstitial lung disease. Mild mosaic attenuation in the left base may represent regional air trapping and constrictive disease of small airways 2. Several small pulmonary nodules as described above measuring 6 cm or less. Largest of these appear to be in peribronchovascular distribution probably inflammatory. In the absence of risk factors for malignancy or a smoking history followup chest CT in one year is recommended. However if such history or risk factors exist followup chest CT in 6 to 12 months is recommended. 3. Incidental note is made on a subtle ill-defined approximately 1.8 cm focal hypodensity in the segment 8 of the liver which may represent a solid nodule. This is not properly evaluated on this unenhanced CT and etiology is uncertain



(5)

Clinical Information: xx-year-old female with history of recurrent brain bleed history of smoking. Evaluate for primary lung tumor. Comparison: There is no CT of the chest available for direct comparison. Correlation is made with radiograph of the chest performed on 1/5/2012 as well as CT of the brain from 11/18/2011 and 1/6/2012. Technique: Multidetector helical CT scan of the chest was performed without intravenous contrast. Total Exam DLP (mGy-cm): 320



(6)

Impression: There are numerous pulmonary nodules scattered throughout the lungs which are unchanged since 2005. However there is a new 6 mm pulmonary nodule in the left upper lobe. Given the history that this patient is a smoker and has emphysema followup CT of the chest is recommended in 3 to 6 months than 9 to 12 months and 24 months if there is no change. In the mild prominence of the mediastinal lymph nodes may be secondary to the patient's granulomatous disease as there is numerous calcified lymph nodes.



(7)

LUNG SCREENING CT THORAX (LOW DOSE) WITHOUT CONTRAST

Indication: 62-year-old  patient, asymptomatic, meeting high-risk criteria for lung cancer screening

Smoking History:  30+ pack-years of smoking

Comparison:    None

DLP: 89.08

CTDI vol: 2.79

Technique: Noncontrast, low-dose CT of the chest was performed from the lung

apices to the lung bases.
